# The 2023 Pediatric Sepsis Challenge Testing Framework
Sepsis typically results from a presumed or proven infection leading to organ dysfunction and/or death and is a leading cause of death in children in developing countries. In 2017, there were an estimated 48·9 million cases of sepsis worldwide. Children accounted for more than half of cases and 85% occurred in low- and middle-income countries. Most deaths from sepsis are preventable by early detection and treatment with simple, highly effective interventions (e.g., antimicrobials and fluid resuscitation). Thus, improved prioritization, coordination, and timely identification of critically ill children is the cornerstone in efforts to improve sepsis outcomes.

The 2023 Pediatric Sepsis Challenge will be facilitated by a partnership between the Pediatric Sepsis Data CoLaboratory (Sepsis CoLab), the World Federation of Pediatric Intensive & Critical

Care Societies (WFPICCS), and PhysioNet. We will leverage data (with appropriate data agreements and deidentification) from the Sepsis CoLab, which currently has access to data sets containing routinely collected clinical data (including social demographics, geolocations, clinical history, clinical observations, and vital signs) from children presenting to health facilities in Uganda with over 200 predictors and robust outcomes. We challenge the data science community to develop and optimize risk prediction for in-hospital morality and length of stay in children with presumed sepsis in Uganda.
